---
title: Define
description: 'Learn how to define and configure content collections in your Nuxt application.'
---

The Nuxt Content module automatically parses any content files within the `content` directory located at the root of your Nuxt application. This setup allows you to freely structure the folder to suit your project's needs. 

For a better organization, consider using Content Collections, which let you categorize and manage content more effectively. These collections are defined in a `content.config.ts` file.

::warning
If no `content.config.ts` file is present, all files within the content folder are parsed and imported by default. However, once a config file is added, only files matching the specified path patterns defined in collections will be imported.
::


## What are Content Collections?

Content Collections organize related items within your Nuxt Content project. They provide a structured way to manage your content, making it easier to query, display, and maintain your site's data.

Key features include:

- **Logical Grouping**: Group similar content together, such as blog posts, product pages, or documentation articles
- **Shared Configuration**: Apply common settings and validations across all items within a collection
- **Improved Querying**: Fetch and filter related content items efficiently
- **Automatic Type Inference**: Get type safety and autocompletion in your development environment
- **Flexible Structure**: Organize collections by content type, category, or any other logical grouping that suits your needs

## Defining Collections

Create a `content.config.ts` file in your project's root directory. This special file configures your collections database, utility types, and content handling.

Here's a basic example:

```ts [content.config.ts]
import { defineCollection } from '@nuxt/content'

export const collections = {
  docs: defineCollection({
    // Load every file inside the `content` directory
    source: '**',
    // Specify the type of content in this collection
    type: 'page'
  })
}
```

### Collection Schema

Schemas enforce data consistency within a collection and serve as the source of truth for TypeScript types.

On top of the [built-in fields](#built-in-fields), you can define a schema by adding the `schema` property to your collection by using a [`zod`](https://zod.dev) schema:

```ts [content.config.ts]
import { defineCollection, z } from '@nuxt/content'

export const collections = {
  docs: defineCollection({
    source: '**.md',
    type: 'page',
    // Define custom schema for docs collection
    schema: z.object({
      tags: z.array(z.string()),
      image: z.string(),
      date: z.Date()
    })
  })
}
```

::note
`@nuxt/content` exposes a `z` object that contains a set of Zod schemas for common data types. Check the [Zod’s README](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) for complete documentation on how Zod works and what features are available.
::

::tip
You can define as many collections as you want to organize different types of content.
::

## Querying Collections

Use the [`queryCollection`](/docs/utils/query-collection) util to fetch one or all items from a collection:

```vue [pages/blog.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const { data: posts } = await useAsyncData('blog', () => queryCollection('blog').all())
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Blog</h1>
    <ul>
      <li v-for="post in posts" :key="post.id">
        <NuxtLink :to="post.path">{{ post.title }}</NuxtLink>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</template>
```

::note{to="/docs/utils/query-collection"}
Learn more about the available query options in our `queryCollections` API documentation.
::

## defineCollection()

The `defineCollection` function defines a collection in your content configuration. Here's its TypeScript signature:

```ts
function defineCollection(collection: Collection): DefinedCollection

type Collection = {
  // Determines how content is processed
  type: 'page' | 'data'
  // Specifies content location
  source?: string | CollectionSource
  // Zod schema for content validation and typing
  schema?: ZodObject<T>
}
```

::note{to="/docs/collections/types"}
Learn more about collection types.
::

```ts
type CollectionSource = {
  // Glob pattern for content matching
  include: string
  // .path prefix (only applies to 'page' type)
  prefix?: string
  // Glob patterns to exclude content
  exclude?: string[]
  // Root directory for content matching
  cwd?: string
  // Remote git repository URL (e.g., https://github.com/nuxt/content)
  repository?: string
}
```

::note{to="/docs/collections/sources"}
Learn more about collection sources.
::

The function returns the defined collection object.
