# Rendering

The `<ContentDoc>` and `<ContentRenderer>` components render the body of a Markdown document in a rich-text format.

Nuxt Content provides 2 components to render Markdown content in a rich-text format, applying HTML tags ([Prose](/guide/writing/markdown)) and displaying Vue components ([MDC](/guide/writing/mdc)).

- The `<ContentDoc>` component accepts an optional `path` prop to fetch the `content/` directory.
- The `<ContentRenderer>` component renders a Markdown document returned by [`queryContent()`](/guide/displaying/querying).

::alert{type="info"}
`<ContentDoc>` and `<ContentRenderer />` components are auto-imported, so any component or page can use them.
::

## `<ContentDoc />`

The `<ContentDoc>` component fetches a document and renders it in a rich-text format.

The fetching endpoint defaults to the current route (`$route.path`). An explicit path can be passed to the component with the `path` props.

Create a [catch all route](https://nuxt.com/docs/guide/directory-structure/pages/#catch-all-route) named `pages/[...slug].vue` and add the component:

```vue [pages/[...slug\\].vue]
<template>
  <main>
    <ContentDoc />
  </main>
</template>
```

It will fetch the document corresponding to the `$route.path` and render it. It will also handle the head management so you are ready to go, see the [front-matter](/guide/writing/markdown#front-matter) section.

You can use the `<ContentDoc>` component to render a specific document by specifying the `path` property:

```vue [app.vue]
<template>
  <main>
    <ContentDoc path="/about" />
  </main>
</template>
```

Take a look at the [Hello world](/examples/essentials/hello-world) example to see it in action.

::alert{type="info"}
Head over to the [API section](/api/components/content-doc) to see the complete API of `<ContentDoc>`.
::

## `<ContentRenderer />`

The `<ContentRenderer>` component renders the body of a Markdown document returned by [`queryContent()`](/guide/displaying/querying) in a rich-text format. It fallbacks to rendering the content in a `<pre>`{lang="html"} tag if the content is not Markdown ([:icon{name="fa-brands:github" class="inline-block w-4"} source code](https://github.com/nuxt/content/blob/main/src/runtime/components/ContentRenderer.vue)).

`<ContentRenderer>` accepts a `value` prop containing the data.

```vue [app.vue]
<script setup>
const { data } = await useAsyncData('hello', () => queryContent('/hello').findOne())
</script>

<template>
  <ContentRenderer :value="data" />
</template>
```

::alert{type="info"}
Head over to the [API section](/api/components/content-renderer) to see the complete API of `<ContentRenderer>`.
::
