---
title: queryCollectionItemSurroundings
description: 'The queryCollectionItemSurroundings composable looks for sibling contents of an specific path.'
---

## Type

```ts
function queryCollectionItemSurroundings<T extends keyof PageCollections>(collection: T, path: string, opts?: SurroundOptions<keyof PageCollections[T]>): Promise<ContentNavigationItem[]>
```

## Usage

Use the auto-imported `queryCollectionItemSurroundings` to find the previous and next items relative to a specific content item in a collection. This is particularly useful for creating navigation between related content pages.

```vue [pages/[...slug\\].vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const { data } = await useAsyncData('surround', () => {
  return queryCollectionItemSurroundings('docs', '/foo')
})
</script>
```

## API

### `queryCollectionItemSurroundings(collection: CollectionName, path: string, opts?: SurroundOptions)`

Find the surrounding items (previous and next) for a specific content item in a collection.

- Parameters:
  - `collection`: The key of the defined collection in `content.config.ts`.
  - `path`: The path of the current content item.
  - `opts`: (Optional) An object with the following properties:
    - `before`: (Optional) The number of items to fetch before the current item. Default is 1.
    - `after`: (Optional) The number of items to fetch after the current item. Default is 1.
    - `fields`: (Optional) An array of additional fields to include in the surrounding items.

- Returns: A Promise that resolves to an array containing the surrounding items. The array will have the following structure:
  - `[previousItem, nextItem]` if using default options.
  - `[...previousItems, ...nextItems]` if using custom `before` and `after` values.

Each item in the array is of type `ContentNavigationItem` or `null` if there is no item in that position.

## Example

Here's an example of how to use `queryCollectionItemSurroundings` to create a simple navigation between content pages:


```vue [pages/[...slug\\].vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const { data } = await useAsyncData('surround', () => {
  return queryCollectionItemSurroundings('docs', '/foo', {
    before: 1,
    after: 1,
    fields: ['badge', 'description']
  })
})
</script>
```

