---
title: Setup Nuxt Studio
seo:
  title: Introduction and setup of Nuxt Studio - the visual CMS platform of Nuxt
    Content
  description: Studio is a the Git-based CMS platform for Nuxt Content websites,
    providing an intuitive interface to edit your Markdown, YAML and JSON files
    and publish your changes to GitHub.
navigation:
  title: Setup
description: Studio is the intuitive interface to edit Nuxt Content websites.
  Edit your Markdown, YAML and JSON files and publish your changes to GitHub.
---

Studio is a Nuxt Content plugin you can activate to use the visual CMS platform.

Content editors can benefit from a user-friendly interface including, among other things, editors to edit their `Markdown`, `YAML` or `JSON` files.

Developers can customize the edition experience and provide tools to the editor who can focus on content without requiring any technical expertise.

:video{autoplay controls loop poster="/assets/home/videos/HomeNotionLikePoster.webp" src="https://res.cloudinary.com/nuxt/video/upload/v1733494722/contentv3final_rc8bvu.mp4"}

## Authentication

The Studio admin is located on [studio.content.nuxt.com](https://nuxt.studio). From there you can either login with GitHub or with Google. Both methods give you the same edition rights but since Studio is [synchronized with GitHub](/docs/studio/github), the repository import must be handled by a GitHub user.

::warning
Google authentication is adapted for non technical users. Google users have to join a team with existing projects to edit them.
::

## Connect your Nuxt Content repository

Once you are logged in the admin, you have the possibility to import your Nuxt Content repository from the interface.

::tip
Two options are available, you can either import an existing repository or use one of our [templates](https://nuxt.studio/templates).
::

The only requirement is to host your repository on GitHub. From the interface, connect to our [GitHub app](/docs/studio/github), you'll be then able to link a GitHub repository to your Studio project.

Once the project is created, you can start editing your files with the Studio editors and publish your changes.

## Enable the live preview

Once created, your project URL must be set to enjoy all Studio features, especially the live preview of your website.

::tip
We are proposing a GitHub Pages deployment. By using it, we will handle all the requirements for you. However, if you want to use the deployment platform of your choice, please follow the simple guideline below.
::

To enable the live preview, you just need to activate studio in the content configuration of your fv`nuxt.config.ts` file.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  content: {
    studio: {
      enabled: true
    }
  }
})
```

Once deployed, you can ensure Studio has been activated by navigating to the `/__studio.json` page on your site. This metadata page is automatically generated by the Content module and must be accessible to connect your URL in the self-hosted section of Studio.

### Troubleshooting

The `__studio.json` file is generated but you encounter a `Forbidden error: invalid property check` when setting your URL in the self-hosted section, follow these steps:

1. Ensure the `gitInfo` field is set and accurate in the `__studio.json` file:

```json [https://your-website.com/__studio.json]
"gitInfo": {
  "name": "studio-front",
  "owner": "nuxtlabs",
  "url": "https://github.com/nuxtlabs/studio-front"
},
```

::warning
This information should be populated automatically in most cases. We support most popular providers (Vercel, Netlify, etc.), but if you're using a non supported provider or a custom one, it may not be fetched correctly.
::

2. You can manually override this data by setting those configs in your `nuxt.config.ts`:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  content: {
    studio: {
      enabled: true,
      gitInfo: {
        name: 'Your repository name',
        owner: 'Your repository owner/organization',
        url: 'Your GitHub repository URL'    
      }
    }
  }
})
```

3. By ensuring these fields are correctly set, you can resolve the `Forbidden error` and successfully enable your site preview on Nuxt Studio. If not, please contact us on the [Discord server](https://discord.gg/sBXDm6e8SP).
