---
title: Allow real time synchronization between Studio and GitHub
description: Nuxt Studio is natively synced with GitHub. Install the Nuxt Studio GitHub app and enable content publication on GitHub directly from Studio.
navigation:
  title: Synchronization
---

::tip
This section explains the syncronization behaviour between Studio and GitHub. However this process is handled directly from the platform and do not require any external action. This page purpose is purely informational. 
::

## Overview

Nuxt Studio integrates with the [GitHub](https://github.com) API, enabling smooth synchronization between Studio and your GitHub repositories. This first-class integration is made possible through the utilization of [GitHub Apps](https://docs.github.com/en/developers/apps/getting-started-with-apps/about-apps#about-github-apps).

## Installation

To begin, you need to install the [Nuxt Studio GitHub App](https://github.com/apps/nuxt-studio) in your personal account or in the organizations you manage. Installing a GitHub App requires either organization ownership or admin permissions in a repository. If you lack the necessary permissions, the repository owner will need to approve the request.

You can access the installation page from anywhere on the app by clicking on [Install with GitHub](https://github.com/apps/nuxt-studio/installations/new).

### Permissions

During the installation of our GitHub app, you will be prompted to grant certain permissions:

- Read access to `actions`, `metadata`, `members`, and `plan`
- Read and write access to `secrets`, `administration`, `contents`, `pages`, `pull requests` and `workflows`

We need read access to `actions` to send a notification when a workflow run fails on a pull request or on the repository default branch. `metadata` is mandatory to fetch repository data, `members` to import your organization members and repository collaborators and `plan` is used to propose features based on your GitHub account plan.

Nuxt Studio acts on your behalf to create repositories, branches, pull requests, and perform commits and merges. We also offer one-click deployment to GitHub Pages with instant preview of workflows and environment variables secrets management. To accomplish this, we need read and write access to `administration`, `contents`, `pages`, `pull requests`, `workflows` and `secrets`.

### Repositories Installations

When installing our GitHub app, you will be prompted to select all repositories or a subset of them. This selection can be changed at any time by going to the [GitHub app settings](https://github.com/apps/nuxt-studio/installations/new).

By clicking on `Install`, Nuxt Studio will install each repository you have selected, enabling you to perform all the actions listed above.

## Uninstall

All the data imported from GitHub is directly associated with your GitHub app installation. If you uninstall the GitHub app, all the associated data will be deleted.
