---
title: Document-driven
description: '@nuxt/content allows a new way of writing your website pages called Document-driven.'
---

Document-driven development gives a lot more power to Markdown-based pages.

This mode creates a direct binding between your `content/` directory and your pages.

It also offers `page`, `navigation`, `surround` and `globals` global variables.

Let's dive into what this new @nuxt/content feature has to offer.

## Global `page`, `surround` and `navigation`

With this mode enabled, queries will be made from [route middlewares](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/guide/directory-structure/middleware#middleware-directory) and will be resolve before your page renders.

That gives access to the [`useContent()`](/api/composables/use-document-driven) composable anywhere in your app.

```ts
<script setup lang="ts">
const { navigation, page, surround, globals } = useContent()

console.log(page.value)
</script>
```

---

## Layout binding

Most of the content context of your project becomes globally available with Document-driven mode.

This unlocks the capability of configuring your page layout from the front-matter.

To do so, you only have to specify an available layout from your page front-matter:

```md [my-page.md]
---
layout: reversed
---

This page will use the reversed layout!
```

By default, the app will search for `default` layout if none is specified.

If you want to use another layout, you might want to use `layoutFallbacks` key from the configuration:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  content: {
    documentDriven: {
      layoutFallbacks: ['theme'],
    }
  }
})
```

This configuration will search for a `theme` key in `globals`, then search for a `layout` key inside that global object.

If it is found, that layout key will be used as a fallback.

---

## Globally available queries

This mode gives you a convenient way to access some files data globally in your app.

To do so, you have to specify a query in your `documentDriven.globals` key of your module configuration:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  content: {
    documentDriven: {
      globals: {
        theme: {
          where: [
            {
              _id: 'content:_theme.yml'
            }
          ],
          without: ['_']
        }
      }
    }
  }
})
```

This configuration will search for a `_theme.yml` file in the `content/` directory.

If it is found, it'll add it as `globals.theme` key, accessible via `useContent().globals`.

Any change to these files will be automatically reflected in the app, as any other file from @nuxt/content.

---

## Catch-all page injection

The Document-driven mode also ships with a pre-configured catch-all page.

That bundled page is useful to keep your project structure ultra minimal when using Document-driven mode.

Here is what your project can look like with this enabled:

```
my-project/
  content/
  nuxt.config.ts
  package.json
  tsconfig.json
```

It comes with a direct binding between your pages `title` and `description` to your OpenGraph tags.

Also, it allows you to use `cover` key from front-matter to set the OpenGraph `og:image` and `twitter:image` tags.

```md [my-page.md]
---
cover:
  src: /path/to/image.jpg
  alt: "My Cover Image"
---
```

### Page slots

That page comes with 2 slot components, that you can replace at your project level.

To do so, you only have to create a component with the same name in your project `components/` directory.

#### `<DocumentDrivenEmpty />`

This component will be shown when there is no content for the current page, but the page exists.

#### `<DocumentDrivenNotFound />`

This component will be shown when no page has been found for the current URL.
