---
title: defineCollection
---

## Type

```ts
function defineCollection(collection: Collection): DefinedCollection
```

## `defineCollection(collection: Collection)`{lang=ts}


The `defineCollection` function is used to define a collection in your content configuration. It takes a single argument of type `Collection` and returns the defined collection.

### Parameters

- `collection`: An object of type `Collection` with the following properties:
  - `source`: Specifying the source of collection. accepts:
    - A string in glob patterns to define which files to include.
    - An object
  - `type`: The type of content in the collection. Currently, only `'page'` and `'data'` are supported.
  - `schema`: (Optional) A Zod schema to validate and type the frontmatter of the documents in the collection.


#### `type`

The type parameter in defineCollection determines how the content will be processed and used:

- `data`: For structured data that doesn't need rendering, like JSON or YAML files.
- `page`: For rendering full pages with layouts and components.

This choice affects how Nuxt Content handles and exposes the collection's content.

By default Nuxt Content adds predefined fields to all collection. These fields are important for Module's internal workflow.

  - `_id`: Unique Identifier for the content in collection.
  - `stem`: Path of content file wihtout extension. (This is mainly used for sorting and locating the file)
  - `extension`: File extension
  - `meta`: A place that you find all custom fields that are not part of collection schema.

In addition to these global fields, `page` collection have extra fields:

- `path`: Generated path for the content that can be used as page route.
- `title`: Page title.
- `description`: Page description.
- `seo`: Seo head meta.
- `body`: The actual content of the page.
- `navigation`: Navigation config of the page.

#### `source`

Collection source is specifying the location in which Nuxt Content can locate the content files.

```ts
type CollectionSource = {
  // Glob pattern to match collection contents
  path: string
  // A prefix that will add to contents path (this will only applicable in `page` collections)
  prefix?: string
  // List of glob patterns that will use to ignore contents inside path
  ignore?: string[]
  // Absolute path to the root directory on content in which Nuxt Content will match the glob pattern
  cwd?: string
  // Nuxt Content can fetch contents from a remote git repository. ex: https://github.com/nuxt/content
  repository?: string
}
```

#### `schema`

The `schema` property allows you to define a Zod schema for validating and typing the frontmatter of documents in your collection. This schema helps ensure data consistency and provides TypeScript support for your content.

Here's an example of how you can use the `schema` property:

```ts [content.config.ts]
import { defineCollection, z } from '@nuxt/content'

export const collections = {
  docs: defineCollection({
    source: '**',
    type: 'page',
    schema: z.object({ // Schema root should be an object!!
      tags: z.array(z.string()),
      image: z.string(),
      date: z.Date()
    })
  })
}
```

::callout
Note that Nuxt Content extends your custom schema with a predefined schemas to improve querying experience. Checkout [Source type](#type) section to read more.
::

### Returns

The function returns the defined collection object.

## Example

```ts [content.config.ts]
import { defineCollection, z } from '@nuxt/content'

const blog = defineCollection({
  type: 'page',
  source: 'blog/**/*.md',
  schema: z.object({
    date: z.string()
  })
})

export const collection = {
  blog
}
```
