---
title: Markdown
description: 'Nuxt Content uses the Markdown syntax and conventions to provide a rich-text editing experience.'
---

# Markdown

Nuxt Content uses the Markdown syntax and conventions to provide a rich-text editing experience.

- Use Markdown to format your content with Prose components.
- Edit the meta-data of your pages in the front-matter block of your files.

## Prose

In Nuxt Content, Prose represents the HTML tags output from the Markdown syntax, for example title levels, links... A Vue component corresponds to each tag, allowing you to override them if needed.

::alert{type=info}
Read the complete Prose reference in the [API section](/api/prose)
::

### Example

::code-group

  ```markdown [Markdown]
  Just a paragraph.
  ```

  ```html [Output]
  <p>Just a paragraph.</p>
  ```

  ::code-block{label="Preview"}
  Just a paragraph.
  ::
::

### Customizing

If you want to customize a Prose component, here are the recommended steps:

- Checkout the original [component sources](https://github.com/nuxt/content/tree/main/src/runtime/components/Prose).
- Use the exact same props.
- Name it the same in your `components/content/` directory.
- Make it yours 🚀.

## Front-matter

Front-matter is a convention of Markdown-based CMS to provide meta-data to pages, like description or title. In Nuxt Content, the front-matter uses the YAML syntax with `key: value` pairs.

These data are available when rendering the content and can hold any information that you would need.

### Syntax

You can declare a front-matter block at the top of the Markdown files in the `content/` directory with the `---` identifier.

```md[content/index.md]
---
title: 'Title of the page'
description: 'meta description of the page'
---

<!-- Content of the page -->
```

## Code Highlighting

Code highlighting allows you to display beautiful code blocks in your website.

It is provided by [Shiki](https://github.com/shikijs/shiki), which uses the highlighting format as VSCode.

Code highlighting works both on [`ProseCode`](/api/prose#prosecode) and [`ProseCodeInline`](/api/prose#prosecodeinline).

### Native parameters

| Key | Type | Description |
|---------|--------| -----|
| `title` | `String` | Title of the page (will also be injected in metas) |
| `description` | `String` | Description of the page, will be added below the title and injected into the metas |
| `draft` | `Boolean` | Mark the page as draft (and only display it in development mode). You can also use the filename suffix `.draft`, example: `3.my-draft-page.draft.md` |
