---
title: 'Collections'
description: 'How to define and configue content collections.'
---

Collections in Nuxt Content are a powerful way to organize and manage your content. They allow you to group related content items together, making it easier to query, display, and maintain your site's content.


## What are Content Collections?

Content Collections are groups of related content items within your Nuxt Content project. They provide a structured way to organize and manage your content, making it easier to work with large amounts of data.

Key features of Content Collections include:

1. **Logical Grouping**: Collections allow you to group similar content together, such as blog posts, product pages, or documentation articles.

2. **Shared Configuration**: You can apply common settings and validations to all items within a collection, ensuring consistency across your content.

3. **Improved Querying**: Collections make it easier to fetch and filter related content items, enhancing the performance and flexibility of your content queries.

4. **Automatic Type Inference**: Nuxt Content can automatically infer the structure of your content, providing type safety and autocompletion in your development environment.

5. **Flexible Structure**: Collections can be organized in various ways, such as by content type, category, or any other logical grouping that suits your project's needs.

## Defining Collections

To define a custom collection, create `content.config.ts` file in ptoject's root directory. This is a special file that Nuxt Content will load and use to configure collections database, utility types and finding/parsing/querying contents.

Here's a simple example of how to define collections in your `content.config.ts` file:

```ts [content.config.ts]
import { defineCollection } from '@nuxt/content'

// Export collections
export const collections = {
  // Define collection using `defineCollection` utility
  docs: defineCollection({
    // Define the source directory for the collection
    // `source: '**'` will load every file inside `content` directory 
    source: '**',
    // Specify the type of content in this collection
    type: 'page'
  })
}
```

### Collection Schema

Schema is and important part of each collection. Schemas enforce consistent  data within a collection. Schemas also are grounf truth of Typescript typings for collections.

To define schema for you collection, go to `content.config.ts` and provide `schema` for your collection in `defineCollection` function.

```ts [content.config.ts]
import { defineCollection, z } from '@nuxt/content'

// Export collections
export const collections = {
  // Define collection using `defineCollection` utility
  docs: defineCollection({
    // Define the source directory for the collection
    // `source: '**'` will load every file inside `content` directory 
    source: '**',
    // Specify the type of content in this collection
    type: 'page',
    // Define custom schema for docs collection
    schema: z.object({ // Schema root should be an object!!
      tags: z.array(z.string()),
      image: z.string(),
      date: z.Date()
    })
  })
}
```


### Multiple collections

Defining multiple collections is as easy as creating one.


```ts [content.config.ts]
import { defineCollection, z } from '@nuxt/content'

// Export collections
export const collections = {
  // Define collection using `defineCollection` utility
  blog: defineCollection({
    // Define the source directory for the collection
    // `source: 'blog/**'` will load every file inside `content/blog` directory 
    source: 'blog/**',
    // Specify the type of content in this collection
    type: 'page'
  }),
  docs: defineCollection({
    // Define the source directory for the collection
    // `source: 'docs/**'` will load every file inside `content/docs` directory 
    source: 'docs/**',
    // Specify the type of content in this collection
    type: 'page'
  })
}
```

## API

### `defineCollection(collection: Collection)`


The `defineCollection` function is used to define a collection in your content configuration. It takes a single argument of type `Collection` and returns the defined collection.

#### Parameters

- `collection`: An object of type `Collection` with the following properties:
  - `source`: Specifying the source of collection. accepts:
    - A string in glob patterns to define which files to include.
    - An object
  - `type`: The type of content in the collection. Currently, only `'page'` and `'data'` are supported.
  - `schema`: (Optional) A Zod schema to validate and type the frontmatter of the documents in the collection.


##### `type`

The type parameter in defineCollection determines how the content will be processed and used:

- `data`: For structured data that doesn't need rendering, like JSON or YAML files.
- `page`: For rendering full pages with layouts and components.

This choice affects how Nuxt Content handles and exposes the collection's content.

By default Nuxt Content adds predefined fields to all collection. These fields are important for Module's internal workflow.

  - `contentId`: Unique Identifier for the content in collection.
  - `weight`: Numerical reperesentation of content order.
  - `stem`: Path of content file wihtout extension. (This is mainly used for sorting and locating the file)
  - `extension`: File extension
  - `meta`: A place that you find all custom fields that are not part of collection schema.

In addition to these global fields, `page` collection have extra fields:

- `path`: Generated path for the content that can be used as page route.
- `title`: Page title.
- `description`: Page description.
- `seo`: Seo head meta.
- `body`: The actual content of the page.
- `navigation`: Navigation config of the page.

##### `source`

Collection source is specifying the location in which Nuxt Content can locate the content files.

```ts
type CollectionSource = {
  // Glob pattern to match collection contents
  path: string
  // A prefix that will add to contents path (this will only applicable in `page` collections)
  prefix?: string
  // List of glob patterns that will use to ignore contents inside path
  ignore?: string[]
  // Absolute path to the root directory on content in which Nuxt Content will match the glob pattern
  cwd?: string
  // Nuxt Content can fetch contents from a remote git repository. ex: https://github.com/nuxt/content
  repository?: string
}
```

##### `schema`

The `schema` property allows you to define a Zod schema for validating and typing the frontmatter of documents in your collection. This schema helps ensure data consistency and provides TypeScript support for your content.

Here's an example of how you can use the `schema` property:

```ts [content.config.ts]
import { defineCollection, z } from '@nuxt/content'

export const collections = {
  docs: defineCollection({
    source: '**',
    type: 'page',
    schema: z.object({ // Schema root should be an object!!
      tags: z.array(z.string()),
      image: z.string(),
      date: z.Date()
    })
  })
}
```

::callout
Note that Nuxt Content extends your custom schema with a predefined schemas to improve querying experience. Checkout [Source type](#type) section to read more.
::

#### Returns

The function returns the defined collection object.


## Querying Collections

Nuxt Content provides `queryCollection` utility to query a collection and fetch on or all contents.

```ts
const docs = await queryCollection('docs').all()
```

Checkout [`queryCollections` Docs](/composables/query-collection) to read more about this utility.